>> Steve Kinney: But now,
what I'm gonna challenge you with is,
that's our little person.
It's great, it's wonderful.
We've also got these characters.
I've never played Dungeons & Dragons, so
no one fact-checked me on this at all or
what any of this stuff means.
I did Google, like, what the kind
of diet you might use was, and
that was about but
we've got this rollDice function right.
And I believe it takes 4,6 sided.
I don't know what I'm doing here, okay?
I'm getting nods from the group,
which means,
like this is I might as well be making
a sports reference at this point.
So ideally we're gonna generate
a whole bunch of random
numbers as well as a new date just
to make our lives extra hard.
And then some things that should
definitely be what we passed in, right?
And so
your job is to the best of your ability,
can you get these tests to pass?
What, he's not gonna walk me
through this and hold my hand no,
I'm not gonna do it anymore.
This one, you're gonna take a run at it,
get frustrated and sad, and
then I will swoop in with
the answers I wrote in advance.
>> Steve Kinney: We're gonna look
at it from three different ways.
The right answer is whichever
one feels best to you, right?
So we'll go ahead.
We'll mark this.
It technically passes only
if we're running our tests.
Technically, it passes.
Why does it pass?
Because it doesn't fail.
And that is the only
prerequisite to passing.
Cool, so we'll go ahead and
we'll make a character and
that will be a new Character
let's call Ada and
then correct me this is a real D&D class,
right?
Kind of like a necromancer I
believe If I'm not mistaken.
We've got this computer scientist.
And like I said, of the different
ways we can tackle this one,
we're gonna start with just
the silliest or the simplest.
Not silly, it's simple.
It's very serious.
It's just simple, which gets the job done
and thereby is a right answer that counts.
Which is to say expect
that character.firstName,
very similar to what we were doing before,
to be as long
as you accomplish what you said you
were gonna do on the tin, all right?
If you say you're gonna verify, it has
these three things you only verify two,
then you technically lose, right?
But if, as long as you check all three,
you win.
And then we'll talk about some other
ways that we can handle this as well.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
>> Steve Kinney: Roll,
>> Steve Kinney: To be computer
scientists, right?
Now, things that I might
choose to do here,
depending, which is what
you don't want is this
test to fail because you made a typo,
right?
Which arguably is not bad for
the long-term health of your code base
cuz you will find the typo
when your tests fail,
but it is probably important to your
short-term mental health sometimes.
So what you could do do for instance,
and I think for a larger thing,
it might make more sense.
You could do something like firstName.
>> Steve Kinney: And this is also
useful if you're gonna do like
a lot of tests and
maybe start using semicolons instead of
commas
>> Steve Kinney: Which is I'm just
gonna verify that they are the same and
I don't wanna type these things over and
over again.
This will just stop you from making typos,
that's all.
So you can do firstName.
>> Steve Kinney: And
then here you can kinda do the same thing.
>> Steve Kinney: Definitely more
useful for bigger objects, but
the principle works regardless if you've
made an overly contrived example or not.
Cool, so that'll work.
The other thing that we can do is start
to bring in some of those things that we
saw earlier.
There's some ones that we
didn't talk about here as well.
So if we did something, and this will show
you like kind of the nature of toEqual.
So we'll say expect character.
Let's start with a test
that is gonna fail.
toEqual, and we're gonna say
firstName, lastName and roll.
And while those are all true, the issue
is that we have many more things, right?
And so, that's they're not technically
equal because there's a bunch
of additional values here that you're
not necessarily looking for, right?
Now you have a bunch of ways you
can handle this we saw before there
was that object or expect array
containing or object containing,
so we could do expect object containing,
that one will pass, right?
This will basically say,
hey this character we want to equal.
Some object that has the right first and
lastName and role.
And so, for instance
>> Steve Kinney: This
one fulfills the nature of
the test as well, right?
Where if something became not what we
expected of the three things we're looking
for in the name of this test,
then we fail.
But honestly,
as long as it has these three properties.
We don't necessarily care about
the other things that it has, right?
This is good for like really gigantic
API requests or something like that,
or in some cases where you
have a giant object and
you're only trying to add one new
property to it, like what you don't want.
Let's say that object came from somewhere
else in the code base you're just trying
to add maybe a create date or
last modified date to it.
What you don't want is that
object changing somewhere else.
If all we're supposed to do is add
one new property to it, right?
You're like,
I don't care what else is in this object,
as long as it has a new property that
I expect to come out of this, cool.
And that's a way to make your test not,
cuz if your tests are failing all over
the place for reasons that are not
important, what you're gonna do?
You're gonna stop writing tests,
or you start removing them or
stuff along those lines.
Sometimes these strategies are you could
argue, well, is this not as exactly cool?
Were you gonna delete the test, otherwise?
You were, and so sometimes it's about
stopping your own worst desires.
So this will solve for it.
To show you some other ways that we
could do it, we could do something
like we can do that firstName,
lastName, and roll again, and
that is gonna fail because we've got
all these additional properties.
What we could also do is to say
something along the lines for
instance, strength Night,
we'll decide if we want to watch
me go all the way with this.
>> Steve Kinney: We can do expect,
>> Steve Kinney: Which
is to say we'll take
anything of this type.
So like, expect any number, right?
Because we're getting
it's a random number,
we don't really know what to do here.
So now you can see that in terms
of things that don't match,
as long as this is a number,
we don't really care.
That way, we can control for
the randomness as well.
Can he remember all of the D&D
properties on his own?
We'll find out together.
Austerity, that's one.
>> Steve Kinney: Intelligence,
that's why I have an audience.
Was it, I can also look it up.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Steve Kinney: You ever
try to spell while
people are watching you?
Cool, cool, cool.
>> Speaker 2: Charisma
>> Steve Kinney: Charisma, now,
are we going for a victory lap
over what this test actually says?
Okay, so, some interesting ones in here.
Level, we do wanna be one, right?
Because they should start at level one.
I should probably rename
the test at some point, but
we could say that level, that one we
care about, that should be a default.
I might change this one, like,
it should start out with
the correct initial properties.
The problem with this test is,
if one thing breaks, you now have
to squint at a very big diff, and
there's an argument of breaking
this out into little tests, right?
Cuz you will know exactly which one
failed if you break it out into
a bunch of smaller tests.
It might feel tedious,
future you will be happier.
And so, the interesting thing about that,
expect at any, is we're looking for
numbers, right?
Obviously, in this case,
we might say that last modified is,
expect any date.
All right, so
as long as it's basically a type of, or
instance of, in this case, you're good.
And so at that point, we should only
have that one that we saw earlier,
create at created.
>> Steve Kinney: Awesome, and
now it's just that person, or the ID,
which we saw in the previous example,
which is ID expect.
I could do any kind of string, but again,
in this one, I'll probably do,
and it'll pass this way too.
Now, we can argue this is a bit much,
maybe breaking it down to smaller
tests makes sense, I agree.
The point that I'm trying to make is that,
when you just wanna verify that it is
a date and not be particularly
caring about what date it is.
Now, I will tell you, can you make
the random number the same every time?
You absolutely can.
Can you stop time in your test suite,
as a human,
can you stop timing your test suite and
set the time to something?
You absolutely can.
You can do all those things.
But there's a question the very
beginning of this workshop of,
at what point do you take mocking too far?
At a certain point, the more you mock,
the more you are intentionally
divorcing yourself from reality,
which sometimes means you've
divorced yourself from reality.
So in this one we're saying, listen,
I don't care what number it is,
as long as it is a number.
And depending on what we care about,
we can fine-tune it a little bit more.
Some other strategies we can
take when we don't totally know
what everything's gonna be is,
this one's pretty easy.
This is mostly a sanity test, right?
We could say,
>> Steve Kinney: I
don't have these values in here.
What I'm gonna do real quick,
for my own sanity,
I'm just gonna move these up to the outer
scope, so I've got them available.
>> Steve Kinney: First name,
last name, and role.
And we can say,
>> Steve Kinney: Level up.
We could expect,
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, it passes.
And then, this is an interesting one,
cuz again,
it should update the last
modified date when leveling up.
Now, later on I'll tell you about how
to set the time to recurrent time and
how to, you could basically set the time,
create the thing,
move the time forward a second,
and verify all that stuff.
Really like, if I know that my
implementation is new date,
I could assume some things about time,
is it tends to go into the future, right?
You can choose your metaphor in this case,
which is, time keeps on taking into
the future, or cuz we're in Minneapolis,
times are a changing, whatever you want.
And so, for this one,
this is where I might choose to use that
not thing that I showed you earlier.
Again, under things that are helpful,
depending on what you're
trying to achieve.
And I will remind you,
what is the right answer?
The right answer is whatever makes you
feel good about refactoring your code.
If you're on a team,
then it's more democratized of
whatever makes your team feel better.
But generally speaking, it's about getting
to the thing that makes you comfortable,
not some kind of, weird rite of passage.
Cool, so
we can do character = new Character.
First name, last name, and role, and
then we can expect the, we'll go ahead and
we'll level that character up.
>> Steve Kinney: And really what we're
assuming is that we've now modified
the character, so that created
at time should not be the same,
as the last modified time, right?
So that's a case where I
might choose to use that not.
So then we expect,
>> Steve Kinney: Character.lastModified.
>> Steve Kinney: Not to be,
>> Steve Kinney: What I'll probably do is,
I want the same reference.
I could stringify it, but let me do this,
>> Steve Kinney: So,
we make the character,
we're gonna store on to their initial last
modified date, just put in a variable.
And then we're gonna level them up.
And what really,
all we wanna make sure is that the new
last modified date is not
the original one, right?
And again, because we can make
some assumptions about time,
we can assume that it's in the future,
right?
If it were some other value, you might
also choose not to do that as well.
And there's nothing stopping you from
verifying stuff before and after.
Most tests fall with this thing called
a triple A pattern, there's the arrange,
act, and then assert, which is effectively
kind of what I'm doing in these spaces.
There's no rule that you have to do that,
it's just a way to kinda
think about your test, right?
We get everything in place,
we do something, and then we verify stuff.
But if it's helpful to you,
you could do something like,
I might break this out
into two tests personally,
cuz if i test fails,
I want to immediately know what it is.
But theoretically,
have I done this before in my code base?
100% I have, which is,
make a new character,
expect it to be level one,
then up them to a level two.
Again, it's all about what makes sense for
you and your code.
You could also choose to, like,
we already have that kind of,
in this test as well, right?
And what I don't need is two test
breaking for the same reason.
So how you break this stuff up is, again,
going to be case by case based
on what is most helpful for you.
But again, breaking stuff up into small,
well-named things has never hurt anyone,
ever.
We're just trying to make sure they're
not the same object in memory, right?
Which is like, that was a data object,
we're placing it, right?
With numbers though,
you could do something to,
like if we wanted to take that
suggestion and apply it somewhere else,
we could do something like
>> Steve Kinney: const.
Initial level.
And little weird for this example, but you
can think of plenty of cases in a business
logic application,
where this might be true.
Whereas initial level is character.level.
We level the character up,
and then we say we
want the character level to be
greater than initial level.
>> Steve Kinney: And that one does work.
And so now all of a sudden,
isn't companies like Microsoft,
the first engineering level is
a level 55 engineer, right?
So now if people like,
if you change the rules of the game,
we don't start at level one.
You start at level 55,
this test will still pass, right?
In this exact example, little silly, but
you can see words where it's as long as it
is higher or something along those lines.
There are some helpers for
those kinds of things.
At the end of the day,
you could always do something like expect
character level greater than 0 to be true.
Like in a pinch,
these are all just helpers around
as simple logical statement.
But these are also a lot prettier.
>> Speaker 2: Good question.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So this new level up test
right here, if you modify the original
function to incorporate a starting level,
this test would cover that refactoring.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, right, let's do it.
So we'll actually have this
also take a level, and
we're gonna say that that level is 1.
>> Steve Kinney: And what's cool
about that is all my tests pass.
So I had tests I refactored I know that I
haven't broken anything that at least I
tested for.
I might have broken stuff, but nothing
that I tested for, and now we can set
that and like that, that test will still
work where it might have broken otherwise.
And the breaking test isn't bad if you
know you were changing something, right?
But in this case,
our test is more resilient to that change.
That's a great point.
Yeah and so, and that's kind of
gives us at least a reasonable
reason to talk about a concept
that we will touch upon several
more times later,
which is when we can't control stuff.
There is also this pattern in software,
that's not just about testing,
called dependency injection.
Code that is not testable
is because there is stuff,
if we go back to this character, right?
Roll dice is imported in the module, and
it just lives inside of this
constructor function, right,
which means it is real hard for
us to get our fingers on it, right?
We'll look later at mocking stuff,
totally.
We'll look later under the hood,
they call math.random.
We can look at all those things, but
one pattern that works really well,
and it's not necessarily a testing
pattern, it's just a software pattern,
is what's called dependency injection,
right?
Which is every function
that this thing might use,
you could theoretically pass in, right?
And so for instance,
an example of this might be,
we could do something like roll
in this case = rollDice, right?
Test pass because if we don't
pass the roll function,
it's gonna use that roll dice
that we passed in, right?
But for instance, now we could
theoretically say that last one.
It's nice that I have both a roll
with an e and a roll with two l's.
As you can tell, this was not the example
I had planned on this for, but it works.
Which is to say that roll is
just going to be a function
that is always gonna return 15, right?
What you mad about?
>> Steve Kinney: There was that level,
was the argument first.
So now theoretically,
if I got rid of all of these.
>> Steve Kinney: Watch multi
cursor action, there we go.
>> Steve Kinney: But
did I not replace them all?
These are all still roll dice.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll take
the one that was passed in.
Okay, somewhat silly for this example,
but it came up, so we did it.
More useful is,
let's say you have a React component that,
when it mounts,
it goes to fetch from an API, right?
If that's just a use effect that
is hard coded in there, well,
good luck mounting that without
calling the API, right?
But maybe your reaction component instead
takes a prop called fetch data, right?
And that fetch data by default, if you
know what the fetch data is passed in for
that prop calls the API, right?
But it allows you if you take that
component now in your test suite,
you can pass in one that just returns
an object that fulfills the contract.
And now you don't have to mock
anything out or stub anything,
which we'll talk about in a little bit,
right?
>> Speaker 2: You have an example
of that hopefully [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Of course we will.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: We just got to
a little bit early,
we're just ahead of schedule.
Absolutely, that is almost a crescendo.
But it was a good excuse to
bring it in a little bit early.
So if that stresses you out, don't worry.
We'll cover it again.
But the concept is basically take all
the things that maybe you can't control or
that you don't have access to and allow
yourself to pass in those things as well.
Cool, cuz we don't really care about,
in this case,
roll dice becoming a random number.
We could test that function separately.
We just care that this thing gets
back the properties it ought to, and
the shape that it has.